Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
dubious speculation. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe to
the channel, give the video a thumbs up,
and also check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
Let's go ahead and jump in. I am getting
pretty excited about the first ITC
conference. We've lined up a lot of
great speakers and we're still lining up
more. uh we will at least be able to
have the first edition of NFA Live,
actually live uh because we will have
both Rob and Guy at the conference. And
believe it or not, we've never all been
uh at the same place at the same time.
We've met each other individually, but
not all three together. We've also got a
lot of other great speakers coming as
well. Uh you can check it out at the
website Benjamin Cowan.com and then go
to the conference tab. I look forward to
seeing you guys there. Let's go ahead
and jump in. So, with these Bitcoin
dubious speculation videos, right, we
have to remind ourselves that no one
knows what's going to happen in the
short term. It doesn't matter how
confidently someone says anything. The
truth is that no one knows. But over
here on this channel, we have used our
understanding of seasonality and the
4-year cycle for Bitcoin to best
understand when lows are likely going to
occur and when those counter trend
rallies could occur. So, we do that as
an academic exercise, right? That's the
reason why we do it. The way that I stay
entertained throughout the midterm years
is in the summer I watch the World Cup.
That's a lot more exciting to me than
trying to time counterturn rallies in in
Bitcoin. Be that as it may, as I've
said, DCAing Bitcoin in the second half
of midterm years normally works out
pretty well as long as you have a long
enough time horizon in mind. Of course,
that's not financial advice. Now, let's
talk about the seasonality, right?
Because one of the things that we've
mentioned is that despite
the mental gymnastics, right, despite
the mental gymnastics by those that have
suggested that we can't look at at prior
cycles to give us any insight, the prior
cycles have actually been really
insightful in helping to to navigate the
current market cycle. I understand that
it's not like we have a lot of data
points. I'm not disputing that, right? I
mean I, you know, I studied engineering.
I I know you need more than three data
points for something to be statistically
significant. We're doing this as an
exercise. And despite how it's not
necessarily statistically significant,
it's the best we have and it actually
keeps working out to the dismay of those
who faded it. And what we've talked
about is how Bitcoin likes to form lows
in February of midterm years. February
of 2014, February of 2018, February of
2022, sort of a higher low, but still a
low. And then February of 2026.
Oftentimes going into February, Bitcoin
is weak and then it it finds a low and
then rallies into early March. So, we
talked about this early on, right? And
before that, we talked about how after
you get this initial leg of the bare
market, especially where Bitcoin drops
below the um the 50week moving average
right here, it's it's that's the final
nail in the coffin, right? You don't
need any more confirmation than that.
You didn't even need that if you wanted
to defer just simply to the ROI from the
low, right? Like if you look at the ROI
from the low for Bitcoin, you'll see
that it topped this past cycle on day
1,062.
The cycle before that topped on day
1,59. The cycle before that topped on
day 168. So to within a week, Bitcoin
ended up topping. And now I've suggested
that to within a similar time frame,
Bitcoin could end up bottoming, which
would put it like really late September
or early October. That is when the
window would be. Now, I suggested that
about eight months ago, and every time
we've had a counter trend rally, of
course, people like to make fun of that,
right? They're like, well, you know, if
you're waiting for that, you missed out.
And then eventually, Bitcoin just went
lower. But what I said was ignore
Bitcoin for the first half of midterm
years because it's going to bleed
against basically everything else,
right? And we can verify that. I mean,
you can look at the valuation against
Bitcoin of Bitcoin against say gold and
look at let's look at at six-month
candles. If you look at six-month
candles, did Bitcoin go down against
gold in the first half of the midterm
year? Yes, it did. It dropped about 28%.
Did Bitcoin go down against the S&P in
the first half of the midterm year? Yes,
it dropped about 39%.
Bitcoin also dropped against the energy
market in the first half of the year. It
dropped about 44%.
Even silver, which had a big pullback,
Bitcoin still dropped 18% against in the
first half of the midterm year. So, we
talked about simply ignoring Bitcoin as
an investment for the first half of
midterm years because it's basically
just going to bleed against everything
else in the other asset classes like the
the major the major things. You could
even take an example like Microsoft
which actually had a really bad first
half of the year.
You can see it dropped 22% in the 20
almost 23% in the first half of the
midterm year. And note that Bitcoin also
underperformed that as well. Sorry, let
me pull this up.
Having
trouble getting it to load, but let's
see if I can get it here. So, here you
can see Bitcoin. Let's load it again.
Bitcoin divided by Microsoft. And we're
going to switch back to six-month
candles. You can see what I'm talking
about. You can see how Bitcoin dropped
against Microsoft 13% even though
Microsoft also dropped. So, Bitcoin just
doesn't do that well in the first half
and midterm years. And to put the cherry
on top, the actual low that Bitcoin had
that it that it just formed, the actual
low occurred on July 1st,
thus proving there really wasn't a great
reason to be all that interested in
Bitcoin in the first half of the midterm
year. You could have ignored it all year
long, bought some on July 1st in the
second half, and you would have
outperformed everyone else who decided
that the four-year cycle was a meme and
and and that they wanted to be they
wanted to outsmart it because they
thought that the market couldn't be so
simple. I've been there before, right?
Like I mean, I markets can often be way
more simplistic than we make them out to
be. And I I understand like the desire
to for people to to to sort of mock
those that that just sort of went along
with it, but the reality is is what what
other indicators
have we had this bare market that were
better than just looking at the cyclical
nature. If you look at Bitcoin in 2026
and compare it to say 2018, which is one
we've compared it to a lot, the lows
line up. Even the lower high in May
lines up. The the drop into late June,
early July lines up. Even this little
counter trend rally we're in right now
lines up. And even this little secondary
pop kind of lines up. We ended up
getting one more slight dip into mid
July and then we got a larger move up to
near the 200 day moving average back
then.
If you look at at how it played out in
2018, we had our first rally to the 200
day moving average in May and then we
had another one in late July.
Doesn't mean we have to go all the way
up there, but what you'll see is that
the lows form around the same time. In
fact, in the same way that Bitcoin swept
the low
in 2018, look at look at I mean, it's
kind of crazy. And I know more people
are getting on the bandwagon now, but we
pointed this out like half a year ago.
You see the February low here. In 2018,
we swept the February low in late June,
early July. The same thing happened in
2026. We had a February low and then we
swept it in the summer.
And what I've said is that Bitcoin is
getting squeezed.
You could call it between say the 200
day and the 200 week.
If you look at it on the weekly time
frame, you can say, okay, the 200WE
moving average is sort of it's trying to
hold as support, but to the downside,
it's getting dropped. It's getting sort
of pushed down by the bull market
support band or in this case, the bare
market resistance band. So, it's trying
to go above it and getting and not able
to break out. it's trying to go below it
and not able to break down. So, what's
happening is Bitcoin is sort of like
going back and forth between these two
levels
and then we'll likely get some type of
resolution in the fourth quarter of the
year. Now, in 2018, the resolution was
that it broke down.
Now, I'm not here to say that it has to,
but what I am here to say is that
in order to fully reset all of the
onchain indicators, some of them have
already been reset, but in order to
fully in order to fully reset all of
them,
Bitcoin's price would go a little bit
lower. For instance, if you were to look
at some of the other indicators, right,
before we get into specific indicators,
because I'm already on the chart, let's
look at Bitcoin in 2026 compared to the
average of prior midterm years and
overlay one standard deviation to that
average. And you can see like this is
off the the window that we're in right
now is sort of like a mild brief window
of strength. It doesn't go you wouldn't
expect Bitcoin to go up that much, but
it does tend to go up for a little bit
in July before then going further down
in August, September, October.
So this is still playing out like like
normal. But if you wanted to look at at
some of the individual indicators,
right, you could look at like the uh the
MVRV Zcore, for example, and see that in
order for it to fully reset
historically, it does go below zero. And
if you look at, you know, if you look at
this, you can pretty clearly see that we
haven't made it there yet. Now, that's
no guarantee that we will, but maybe
this time isn't different and it is
simply going to play out and it just
hasn't played out yet. If you look at,
say, the realized price, the realized
price is something that Bitcoin
historically goes below and you can see
that it has gone below it every prior
midterm year. Even in the 2019 2020
example, you can see we eventually went
below it. And so, the argument is is
like we will likely go below it again.
And that's currently at around, you
know, 53K. The balance price is a lot
lower. that's down at around 38K.
Historically, we've gone below that as
well. That might be a little greedy, but
look, if if the stars align and and the
fear overtakes everyone later this year,
I don't know what the narrative will be.
Um, it could be a thousand different
things, but normally the things that
people are thinking about now, it's not
likely that whatever it is, if Bitcoin
were to drop to that level, it would
actually be very similar to how it
played out in 2018 and how it played out
in 2019, where you found support at
around 6K and then you had your final
drop.
And have have any of you guys noticed
like how uninteresting the market is
right now? Like how you probably just
don't really care? I'd like to say
there's dozens of us left. Like a lot of
people just simply do not care. It's
there's this complacency. It's
apathetic. It's apathy, right? There's
just a there's apathy that exists where
we people just don't care anymore. Like
I know there's a few gurus on Twitter
that would have a field day if Bitcoin
were to go back to 70K, but even if it
does that, it's still below the 200 day
moving average. And they might care and
they'll probably use that to then say
that they were right, even though
they've been dead wrong for eight
months. But the point is is
most people wouldn't care if Bitcoin
were to go to 70K or even 80K. Are
people really going to come back even if
it goes to 90? I mean, Bitcoin just
spent, you know, a year basically above
the current levels and we still couldn't
attract retail interest into the space.
If you look at the social interest that
I we've been tracking here for like many
many years, it's been trending down.
Now, that is not in my best interest,
right? I mean, like, and I I tell you
this not because I want it to be this
way, but because I feel like it is my
duty to tell you the truth.
People spent years trying to convince
you that all these false narratives were
the truth, but time reveals the truth.
Now, the gurus can sit around and do
what they do best, call for alt season,
shill the altcoins they've shilled for
the last five or six years and and chalk
it up to being quote unquote, you know,
what they think is based on the data.
But the reality is is they've been wrong
for years. And and I've said this
before, there's a lot of good guys out
there, but they don't understand like
what's going on in the markets. And one
of the ways to think about it is the the
pathway to hell is paved with good
intentions. Someone can have good
intentions on say promoting an altcoin
and and and shilling something because
they truly think it's going to do well,
but that doesn't mean it's going to,
right? That perhaps they're missing
something. Maybe they're in a bubble and
they don't recognize that no one else is
actually using that product. So there's
a lot of people with good intentions who
are good people who who have been
completely wrong about the markets for
years and I've been wrong at points and
I try to own those mistakes, right? I
mean I was got some pretty bad stuff
wrong in 2023
um in 2022. It took me until February to
kind of admit we were in a bare market.
Like I'm not perfect. I get things
wrong. But the thing that people make
the mistake of doing is when they are
wrong, they don't admit it. And I think
that's the hard part is you have to
admit when you're wrong. Because if you
don't admit when you're wrong, then
you're just doomed to make the same
mistake. You're doomed to just tell your
audience the same thing over and over
and over again because the the
alternative to say the words I am wrong
are so incomprehensible that that's not
something that would ever actually be
considered. And so they just kind of dig
themselves further into these narratives
rather than
look at the chart for what it is and
say, "Look guys, I was wrong and and I
have to move on." And when I get things
wrong, you should call me out. And and
you have, right? You have. And and I've
had to swallow my pride a few times. And
it's it's tough. Like it's tough. Like I
don't I don't like doing it, but if I
hide behind it,
then you're not going to I won't learn.
I won't learn from the mistakes that
I've made. So, we all get things wrong.
No one is perfect. These are not digs at
anyone. In fact, I'm I I could be
talking mostly to my former self and
saying, "Look, this used to be how I was
and then I figured out I needed to
change and then once I did, I feel like
it it made me a better investor, but I'm
not perfect and I will still make
mistakes." If you look at the social
interest, like I mean, it's just simply
been trending down for years. Since May
of 2021, it's been trending down. And if
you look at at YouTube views to various
crypto YouTube channels, you can see
that they're averaging around 400,000
views a day. Now, that might sound like
a lot when you look at all these
channels, but again, comparing it to
what it was back in 2021, they were
averaging an order of magnitude more, 3
to four million views per day. So,
you're talking about an order of
magnitude less. Now, when you look at
something like the advanced decline
index of the top 100 cryptocurrencies,
it's been dropping like a rock for
years.
The money supply hasn't saved the
altcoin market.
QT ending didn't save the altcoin
market.
The ISM, PMI stuff, that didn't save the
altcoin market. The hype around the
Clarity Act didn't save it. None of that
stuff did. But those have been the
prevailing narratives for years, right?
And so the argument is that there's only
so long that people can kind of run with
those narratives before there's like,
all right, what's going on? Like why is
it not following that stuff? And the
reason why the crypto market is not
following that stuff is because 99.9999%
of the crypto market has no business
having any value to begin with. Right?
That's the honest truth. That doesn't
mean there's no value. It just means
that when you look back at what the
asset class actually accomplished in the
last cycle, the main accomplishments
were the ETFs and the strategic Bitcoin
reserve, right? And and the memecoin
stuff, right? Like the all the memecoin
launchpads, which is hardly a success,
but that is what was rewarded.
So if the main thing that is rewarded in
an asset class is just figuring out
on-ramps to get more people into the
market, then the fundamentals could
start to break down because then people
are not actually focused on what they
should be focused on. They're just
focused on how can they sell the bag of
what they bought to the next person. And
the way they do that is by hyping up
strategic reserves and ETFs and
memecoins, right? You just get people to
go buy the stuff that you bought. you
sell it and then you say like later.
When you focus on that as an industry
for many many years,
you have an example like what you see
now where the advanced decline index of
the top 100 has just been melting down
for 5 years where most cryptocurrencies
just keep going lower because they have
no intrinsic value. You can put a cute
memecoin or you can put you can put a
cute mascot on a memecoin and say that
it's a great investment and talk about
the great community,
but time reveals the truth.
So, I think that is is kind of the hard
lesson that a lot of people are are
facing right now is that this is the
first cycle where at the end of the
four-year cycle, there was no rotation
into the higher risk investments that
were pedled for the years before it. And
so what people have done is rather than
be like, "All right, yeah, that was the
wrong view," they've then sort of
changed it and now they're trying to
like, you know, convince you that it's
still playing out even though a lot of
the altcoins have completely roundted
all of their gains and have gone even
lower than their 2022 lows. Okay, that's
the problem is that a lot of people
roundtrip the bull market with the
altcoins that they held.
So when we look at this, you can see the
crypto market has been bleeding for
years, right? The only reason the crypto
market looks okay is because of Bitcoin,
right? Like it's because of Bitcoin.
Most everything else has been completely
annihilated. One of the reasons why
Bitcoin dominance is struggling to go up
a lot right now is because of stable
coin dominance going up and because the
altcoin market already got annihilated,
right? Like if the altcoin market
already got annihilated,
I mean, it can still get more
annihilated. As I've said before, just
because it all dropped 80% doesn't mean
it can't drop another 80, but that's the
reason. And we've seen this before. Like
we've seen a period where Bitcoin
dominance struggled to go back up after
a apathetic top like in 2019.
It's the same thing.
And then eventually Bitcoin dominance
broke to the upside on a parabolic rally
by Bitcoin.
So the problem for those that continue
to promote alts day in and day out is
that in order for them to actually start
outperforming Bitcoin for just a month
or two where maybe more than a month or
for them to really outperform for say
like four, five, six months in a row
collectively, you first have to have a
parabolic rally by Bitcoin where Bitcoin
triggers a lot of the euphoric
indicators. If you go back to the
terminal price chart, you can see that
we actually did not hit the terminal
price this cycle. One other time that
happened, 2019, and we've made the
comparison between 2019 and 2025, 2024,
25 for years. Three red cuts in 2025,
three rate cuts in 2019. QT ended in
2025 in December in in December and
Bitcoin topped two months earlier in
October. In 2019, QT ended in August.
June.
So, there's a lot of similarities
between this stuff, right? In 2019, no
rotation to alts. 2025, no rotation to
alts.
We're in this phase.
We're in the post draw down digestion
phase after the non-apathetic top or
sorry, after the non-uporic top. It was
an apathetic top. That's where we are.
The problem is that people thought it
was only going to last a couple of
months, but in fact it happens to align
with the midterm year, which
historically is a weak year. Midterm
years historically are weak and normally
those bare markets last about a year.
Now, could you argue the bare market
could last shorter like 2019? Yeah, if
you have pricebased capitulation,
you can see the orange line over the
blue, which was 201920. We haven't had
that. I'm not calling for a pandemic. I
don't think that's the most likely
outcome. I think timebased capitulation
is the most likely outcome. But in order
to have that, it normally takes about a
year. And when timebased capitul
capitulation ends, it usually aligns
with a big spike in volume, which we
haven't had yet.
As you can see, at the end of 2018, or
sorry, at the end of 2014, there was a
big spike in volume that marked the end
of the bare market. Same thing at the
end of 2018. Same thing at the end of
2022. We haven't had that yet. Now, you
might say, well, because it was an
apathetic top, maybe it'll be an
apathetic bottom. The problem is that
even in 2019, 2020, we still had a
volume spike at the end. Now, yes, it
was due to the pandemic, but the problem
is that like there's always a reason.
And I don't know what the reason is this
time, but whatever it is, people are
probably going to be like, well, you
know, you couldn't have predicted that
the four-year cycle got lucky again when
in reality, it's just playing out the
way it always does.
So for for Bitcoin, yeah, like July is
normally a strong month. You know, I'm
not here to say that it's not. On
average, the the return of Bitcoin in
July in midterm years is positive,
right? Like look at 2022, Bitcoin went
up 20 almost 20%. 2018, it went up
almost 38%. 2014, it was red but only
negative 5%. So on average, Bitcoin is
green in July. And a lot of times it's
green in July after a red June. But
guess what? In 2022, August was red and
September was red. In 2018, August and
September were red. In 2014, August and
September were red and also October. So,
the problem is that July, yeah, it's
could very well be a green month. And
and maybe the way it plays out is how it
played out in 2018 where you get, you
know, another little dip in mid July and
then it goes up into late July or mid
August, finds another lower high and
heads back down in August, September
time frame.
I mean, we're getting squeezed
between the the 200 week and the bare
market resistance band, and we've had
fake outs on either side of it. Now, the
problem is they're going to meet soon,
and when they meet, we're going to have
a resolution, and that resolution is
likely going to kick off in about a
month or two.
And guess what?
If there is a capitulation at the end of
the year like 2018, like 2020 or like
2022 or like 2014,
it usually just sets up the next bull
market, right? Like it's not something
to be scared of. It just usually sets up
the next bull market and then none of it
mattered in in the end. So try to have a
long time horizon.
Fade
the gurus that that still show you the
same narratives every single year for
the last 5 years. Fade that stuff. Okay?
Those guys can turn it around. They just
have to admit they're wrong. Like
everyone has to. And then once they do,
everything becomes a lot clearer. That
would be my advice. All right. And for
you, I think what what a lot of people
should do in this situation is look at
the data on the chart and stop trying to
like focus on all the different
narratives. Yes, sailor selling
optically doesn't look that great. Yes,
I Yes, we know that. And this is why I
say even treasury companies will bleed
to Bitcoin over long enough period of
time. Yes, the unemployment rate, you
know, is is a little finicky, but it's
been okay recently. It all there's so
many things you could look at. I don't
know what the narrative is going to be
at the end of the year. But what I will
say is this is the same people that have
been bullish throughout the entire bare
market, if history is any indication,
they will likely flip bearish at the
beginning of the bull market. I know
that sounds crazy, but I've seen it
happen before. It's like if you get the
memo that the bare market is here when
it first arrives, it's so much easier to
flip bullish when the bare market's
over. If you don't get the memo that the
bare market is here until the third
stage of the bare market, which is where
we've been for the last few weeks, it's
so much harder to flip bullish because
your cost basis for selling for a lot of
these guys, is a lot lower. The time to
sell Bitcoin, if you're going to, was
late Q4 of last year, not anytime this
year, in my opinion.
In fact, DCAing Bitcoin starting in the
second half of midterm years
historically works out as long as you
can stomach a little bit of downside. If
you can stomach that, it probably
doesn't matter long term.
But you got to stop trying to time the
bottom because the reality is is no
one's going to time it perfectly. I can
assure you I'm not. And I'm just doing
the best I can. And trying to keep it as
simple as possible. I have five kids. I
have a life outside of this. I want to
go watch the World Cup. I actually got
to go see the Argentina match against
Egypt. It was probably the best game
I've ever seen in my life.
There's other things to life than just
staring at the charts. So, let's keep it
simple. I'm deferring to the four-year
cycle until proven otherwise. I would I
want to establish positions in Bitcoin
in the second half of the midterm year.
Ignore the narratives and hopefully set
up for the next bull market that
hopefully can come late this year going
into 2027. That is my focus. I might get
it wrong and if I do, I will say it, but
that is my focus. And at the end of the
year, we have the ITC conference. It's
not a coincidence that I put this
conference in November. The reason it's
in November is because I'm hoping the
low is in by that time. If it's not in,
I think it'll be really close to being
in, but I think there's a good chance,
maybe 60 to 65% chance that by November
21st, which is the main conference day,
I think the low will be in. So, one of
the main themes of this conference,
while it's not a crypto conference, one
of the main themes will of course be
Bitcoin.
So, if you're interested, make sure you
get a ticket to the first ITC conference
November 20th through the 22nd in Miami,
Florida. Um, go ahead and get a ticket
if you guys are interested. And we've
we've been lining up a lot of great
speakers. I'm sure you'll recognize a
lot of them. So, make sure you guys
check that out. And we're not going to
have as many as as some of the
conferences. And and this conference is
not just going to be like treasury
companies talking their game. We want to
look at the markets with data with a lot
of the the the best minds in the spaces
in in various asset classes and and that
way the people that go hopefully can
then form their own idea of how they
want to navigate the markets. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe, give the video a thumbs up.
Again, check out the sale on ITC Premium
at into the cryptoverse.com. And I hope
to see you guys at the first ITC
conference in Miami on November 20th
through the 22nd. I will leave a link in
the pinned comment and the description
below. I'll see you guys next time. Bye.